[Music]
mr. Esau
why cockroaches are impossible to kill
cockroaches are called pests for obvious
reasons you come face-to-face with these
little monsters on a daily basis flying
from wall to wall lounging on your sink
crawling on your countertop or chillin
on your headboard while you're asleep
what's most frustrating is they're hard
to kill no matter how many bug sprays
and slaughters you've brought in and
attempt to annihilate them
those reddish-brown insects will only
wiggle and fly themselves to freedom
haunting you over and over again which
brings us to a mind-boggling hair
pulling teeth gnawing question why are
cockroaches so hard to kill bright
siders you're not alone in this
predicament we're all in this together
today we'll find out the reason behind
the indestructibility of cockroaches and
other insects before we reveal the
answer to this mystery be sure to click
the subscribe button and turn on the
little notification bell now you'll be
the first to see all the fun and
interesting updates that arrive daily on
the bright side of life first let's get
to know the enemy in a rough estimate
there are approximately 4,500 species of
roaches in the world and thirty of them
are considered pests the World Health
Organization says that the most
notorious are the American German
oriental Australian and Brown banded
cockroaches of course as long as a bug
has a red brown oval-shaped body with
six legs and two and 10 eye you probably
won't make an exception it's
automatically on your watchlist the
roach that you mostly faceoff with is a
pair of lenita americana
also known as the American cockroach
contrary to its name it's not native to
the United States their original
breeding ground can be found in Africa
and they hitchhike gunboats around the
Year 1625 to spread terror in the US and
all over the world
what ambitious pesky insects
another thing these roaches are proud of
is their amazing genes which are the key
to their survival in any environment
they wouldn't have survived for more
than 320 million years if not for their
genes yes you're dealing with an insect
that lived alongside dinosaurs based on
a study that was published in Nature
communications cockroaches have one of
the largest genome sequences of all
insects it's almost the same number as
human genes about 20,000 the genome News
Network says that genome sequencing
helps to decode how genes work together
to direct the growth development and
maintenance of an entire organism so
what's in their genes there are 150 for
all factory receptors which is twice as
many as any other insect hmm it's no
wonder it can easily zero in on the
tiniest crumb on the floor this creepy
crawly also has 522 gustatory or taste
receptors and this means one thing it
isn't a picky eater if proper food isn't
available it will target nonliving
things like cardboard book bindings and
ceiling boards with starch this is where
it gets gross and creepy it can eat its
own cast-off skin and even it's dead and
crippled comrades it does these achy
things all in the name of survival the
study also found that there are special
enzymes that help this bug to escape
from and survive an onslaught of
pesticide sprays but we're not done yet
the roach has an unbelievably strong
immune system that can withstand harmful
microbes and fungi thus even the most
unsanitary and uninhabitable environment
can become a home sweet home for them
what about if you cut their heads off
well according to an article in
Scientific American it can seal off its
head so that it doesn't bleed out since
it doesn't have a mouth or nose it can
breathe through its spiracles the tiny
holes in each segment of the body the
roaches brain doesn't control its
breathing
instead it sucks in air through its
trachea which is connected to its
sphericals this insect can live for
weeks because it's cold-blooded and the
antenna of its decapitated head can
still wave and say hello to you for
several hours this means that the lonely
head is somehow alive scientists believe
that if you give a nutrients and put it
in a freezer it can last longer what in
the world in case you were thinking of
amputating its limbs it's useless
because its genes contain regenerative
properties these insane facts revealed
why cockroaches are so hard to kill they
can thrive in extreme situations like
decapitation disease hunger and your sly
ways of trying to kill it to be fair
let's not put the spotlight just on this
common pest
here are some other insects that are
difficult to get rid of number one
Mountain stone Wetty as of now
scientists haven't successfully revived
a cryogenic human patient only a few
people have signed up like this 14-year
old British girl who died from cancer
but we still need to see if these
cryopreserved people can be reanimated
in the future perhaps scientists need a
few tips from a mountain stone Wetty to
carry out this effectively the mountain
stone Wetty is from New Zealand
more specifically the Southern Alps this
grasshopper like insect was already
roaming the earth during the prehistoric
era just like cockroaches the nocturnal
flightless bug contains special proteins
which prevent ice forming in its cells
the mountain stone Wetty undergoes
diapause insect hibernation it freezes
itself during the winter using the
antifreeze in its blood and it thaws out
when spring arrives now we know how this
insects survive the ice age number 2
bedbugs good night sleep tight don't let
the bedbugs bite is a cute yet serious
warning for children and adults alike
these bloodsuckers can give you the most
annoying read each of your life
in research published in Nature
communications scientists finally
figured out why this bug is so difficult
to get rid of first off they're zombies
in real life or actual living fossils in
fact they look exactly the same even
after two hundred thousand years however
the bad news is that they continue to
evolve for the sake of survival the
bedbug gene yes genes again
contains enzymes and proteins that can
fight off chemicals from pesticides it
doesn't only contain purely bedbug genes
but also genes from other organisms like
the parasitic bacterium Wolbachia this
helps a bedbug to strengthen its immune
system moreover it's a body can handle
liquid for example blood that is 200%
its size number three housefly these
tiny invaders flood your house in the
summer and land wherever they please
especially on top of your homemade pie
the house fly occupies almost 90% of
human habitations its origins lie in
Central Asia and it carries over 100
serious pathogens like cholera typhoid
and tuberculosis they are one of the
sleekest insects and no amount of
swatting could kill them off easily
thanks but no thanks to their superior
visual ability they can evade our
shooing techniques with finesse this
sleazy insect has it too 6000 ommatidia
or mini lenses so no matter how fast you
are to swat it this insect can see your
movement in slow motion which gives it
ample opportunity to plan a graceful
escape
number four fire ants aren't ants in
general easy to kill yes all you have to
do is eliminate their Queen to bring
down their colony however fire ants have
a special killing condition to
successfully prevent this from happening
fire ants are social creatures most
especially their Queens fire ant Queens
can unite with other Queens to create a
new colony altogether yep
it's not one but multiple Queens in a
single colony in scientific terms this
is called polygons because of the fire
ants social chromosome the gp9
they are happy to live with other
colonies and this makes them harder to
kill because you have to find and take
down every single Queen the more Queens
there are the more formidable it gets
which of the insects in this video
scared you the most don't be shy tell us
in the comments and don't forget to
click the like button and share this
with your friends always stay tuned and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]